# Single-Cell and Spatial Analyses Reveal Tertiary Lymphoid Structures Associated with Prognosis and Immunotherapy Response in Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
Tertiary lymphoid structures (TLSs) are ectopic aggregates of immune cells that have been linked with various clinical outcomes in multiple tumours. However, the heterogeneous nature of TLS underlying treatment responses remained poorly understood. Here, we first decipher the location and composition of tumoral TLS using Asia-prevalent nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) as a model, by analysing single-cell transcriptomes of 349,038 cells from 77 biopsy and peripheral blood samples and spatial-resolved transcriptomes of 23,320 spots from 12 tumour samples. We identify novel cell populations including FCRL4+ regulatory B cells and CXCL13+ cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) as well as the canonical germinal centre (GC) B, T follicular helper (Tfh), and CXCL13+CD8+ T cells, which compose the heterogeneous intra-tumoral TLS in NPC. With additional B cell receptor (BCR) repertoire, we reveal that GC reaction is essential for B cell development in TLS. Noteworthily, co-culture assays reveal that CXCL13+ CAFs promote TLS formation and mediate B cells adhesion and antibody production and FCRL4+ B cells induce the exhaustion and suppress the cytotoxic functions of tumour infiltrating T cells in NPC. We also identify CXCL13+CD8+ T cells as the stem-like and precursor exhausted CD8+ T cells in NPC. Survival analyses reveal that TLS cell signatures (TLS-CS) based on the cell proportions of GC B, Tfh, CXCL13+CD8+ T cells, and CXCL13+ CAFs are associated with prognosis and immunotherapy response in multiple independent NPC cohorts. Collectively, our data uncover the heterogenous composition of TLS and the essential cell population contributing to TLS formation and functions, providing insights into understanding the immune mechanisms of TLS in tumour progression and developing prognostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets for NPC. 
